Tree: a connected undirected graph with no simple circuits
Forest: the property that each of their connected component is a tree
Tree Theorem: An undirected graph is a tree if and only if there is a unique simple path between any [two of its vertices.
Root: A vertex of a tree.
Rooted Tree:  a tree in which one vertex has been designated as the rot and every edge is directed [away from the root.
Parent: If v is a vertex in T other than the root, the parent of v is the unique vertex u such that [there is a directed edge from u to v.
Child: Vertices are u and v. When u is the parent of v, v is called a child of u.
Siblings: Vertices with the same parent are called siblings.
Ancestors: The ancestors of a vertex other than the root are the vertices in the path from the root [to this vertex.
Descendants : The descendants of a vertex v are those vertices that have v as an ancestor.
Leaf: A vertex of a rooted tree if it has no children.
Internal Vertices:  Vertices that have children.
M-ary Tree:  When every internal vertex has no more than m children.
Full M-ary Tree:  When every internal vertex has exactly m children.
Ordered Rooted Tree: a rooted tree where the children of each internal vertex are ordered
Binary Tree:  if an internal vertex has two children
Left Child:  First child of a binary tree
Right Child: Second child of a binary tree
Left Subtree: tree rooted at the left child
Right Subtree: tree rooted at the right child
Tree Vertices Theorem: A tree with n vertices has n-1 edges
Full M-ary Tree Vertices Theorem: A full m-ary tree with i internal vertices contains n = mi + 1 [vertices.
Full M-ary Tree Theorem: A full m-ary tree with (i ) n vertices has i = (n − 1)/m internal vertices [and l = [(m − 1)n + 1]/m leaves, (ii ) i internal vertices has n = mi + 1 vertices and l = (m − 1)i + 1 leaves, (iii ) l [leaves has n = (ml − 1)/(m − 1) vertices and i = (l − 1)/(m − 1) internal vertices.
Balanced Tree: A rooted m-ary tree of height h is balanced if all leaves are at levels h or h − 1.
Balanced Tree Theorem: There are at most mh leaves in an m-ary tree of height h.
Binary Search Tree: binary tree in which each child of a vertex is designated as a right or left [child, no vertex has more than one right child or left child, and each vertex is labeled with a key, which is one of the items.
Decision Tree: A rooted tree in which each internal vertex corresponds to a decision, with a subtree [at these vertices for each possible outcome of the decision.
Binary Comparison Theorem: A sorting algorithm based on binary comparisons requires at least upper [bound(log n!) comparisons.
Average Comparison Theorem: The average number of comparisons used by a sorting algorithm to sort n [elements based on binary comparisons is (omega)(n log n). 
Huffman Coding: an algorithm that takes as input the frequencies (which are the probabilities of [occurrences) of symbols in a string and produces as output a prefix code that encodes the string [using the fewest possible bits, among all possible binary prefix codes for these symbols.
Nim Game: at the start of a game there are a number of piles of stones. Two players take turns making [moves; a legal move consists of removing one or more stones from one of the piles, without removing all the stones left. [A player without a legal move loses.
Minmax Strategy: The strategy where the first player moves to a position represented by a child with [maximum value and the second player moves to a position of a child with minimum value
Minmax Theorem: The value of a vertex of a game tree tells us the payoff to the first player if both [players follow the minmax strategy and play starts from the position represented by this vertex
Universal Address System: a vertex v at level n, for n ≥ 1, is labeled x1.x2. . . . .xn, where the [unique path from the root to v goes through the x1st vertex at level 1, the x2nd vertex at level 2, [and so on.
Traversal Algorithms: Procedures for systematically visiting every vertex of an ordered rooted tree.
Infix Form: To make such expressions unambiguous it is necessary to include parentheses in the in order [traversal whenever we encounter an operation.
Prefix Form: obtain the prefix form of an expression when we traverse its rooted tree in preorder.
Polish Notation: expressions written in prefix form.
Postfix Form: We obtain the postfix form of an expression by traversing its binary tree in postorder.
Reverse Polish Notation - expressions written in postfix form.
Spanning Tree: Let G be a simple graph. A spanning tree of G is a subgraph of G that is a tree containing [every vertex of G.
Backtracking: depth first search.
Breath-first Search: producing a spanning tree of using a simple graph. a rooted tree will be constructed, [and the underlying undirected graph of this rooted tree forms the spanning tree.
Minimum Spanning Tree: a spanning tree so that the sum of the weights of the edges of the tree is minimized.
Prim’s Algorithm: Begin by choosing any edge with smallest weight, putting it into the spanning tree. [Successively add to the tree edges of minimum weight that are incident to a vertex already in the tree, [never forming a simple circuit with those edges already in the tree. Stop when n − 1 edges have [been added.
Kruskal’s Algorithm: choose an edge in the graph with minimum weight. Successively add edges with [minimum weight that do not form a simple circuit with those edges already chosen. Stop after n - 1 edges [have been selected.
